Hi everyone.
Today we will learn Python strings.
Strings in Python are surrounded by either single quotation marks or double quotation marks.
You can display a string literal with the print function.
You can use quotes inside a string as long as they don't match the quotes surrounding the string.
Here, for example, this string was surrounded by double quotes, and we can use a single quote inside
this string.
We can assign a string to a variable.
Like other data types.
You can assign multi-line string to a variable by using three quotes, three double quotes, or three
single quotes.
There is no difference.
Strings are arrays.
Like many other popular programming languages, strings in Python are arrays of bytes representing Unicode
characters.
However, Python does not have a character data type.
For example Java, we have a character data type.
A single character in Python is simply a string with length of one.
Here hello world, for example, when we print a one, the result will be E.
Why?
Because the first character has the position zero.
We can loop through a string via a for loop.
To know the string length, we use the function length and also we can use the keyword in or not in
to check the existence of string inside other string.
Let's try some example to understand more.
Okay, execute via the debugger mode.
Here.
There is no difference between single quote or double quote.
We can use single quote inside the string that surrounded by double quote.
We can assign a string to to a variable.
We can define multi-line string with three double quotes or three single quotes.
We can loop through the string via for loop.
The position from the string start from zero.
This will print the first letter and a one will print the second letter.
The length we use the function length.
Also, we use the keyword in or not in to check the existence of a string inside another string.
Here.
For example, in this.
In this string we have the word three and the result here it will be true three.
In text it will be true three not in it will be false.
In it will be true.
Not in it will be false.